                             MacJeopardy! Help

This game will allow up to 3 contestants to test their skills against one another.  
Contestant #1 is on the left and will use the SHIFT KEY on the keyboard to 'buzz in".
Contestant #2 is in the center and will use the SPACE KEY on the keyboard to 'buzz in".
Contestant #3 is on the right and will use the CTRL KEY on the keyboard to 'buzz in".
You can play this game with one, two or three keyboards as long as you properly connect 
them. To use three on a laptop, I connected one to the PS2 port, one to a USB port, and
used the one already on the laptop as the third.  This way, each contestant has his own.  
The EMCEE has the use of the mouse to select items on the screen, before, during and 
after play.

The first step is to set up the contestants' names.  Use the "Players' Name" entry under 
File, Setup, on the Menu.  On the screen that comes up, type in each player's name 
(maximum is 8 characters). Any name left blank will be populated with "Sammy", "Mac", 
or "Oscar" (contestants 1, 2, 3, respectively).  Hit OK.

Next step is to select a 'picture' for each contestant. There are 7 available, 4 men 
and 3 women.  Simply click on the image of each one to cycle through all seven.

Next, you must select which game you want to play.  Using the menu again, select Games.  
On the popup that appears, select the NUMBER of the game you want to play by using the 
Next and Previous buttons, and then select OK.  A brief description of each game is 
provided.   Notice that the first time you select Games, only "Jeopardy!" is available.  
When you complete a regular "Jeopardy!" round, then the second option will be available 
also, "Double Jeopardy!".  Then, when you complete a "Double Jeopardy!" round, the last 
option, "Final Jeopardy!", will be available.

After you have selected a game, the Jeopardy screen is displayed with 30 spaces, 5 in 
each of the six categories (columns).  Each space has been assigned a value ranging 
from 100 to 500.  In a Double Jeopardy! Game, these values are doubled.  In order to 
see the six categories, the EMCEE (controller of the mouse) must click on the first 
category space (The word "Jeopardy!" near the top left of the board).  Each category 
will be revealed by a timed event (about 3 seconds per category).

After all categories are shown, the game can begin.  Contestant #1 (on the left) goes 
first in every game.  He tells the EMCEE which category and value he wants to try.  
When the EMCEE clicks on that category and value, an ANSWER is displayed.  At that 
point, ANY OF THE contestants can 'buzz in' (by pushing his assigned keyboard key).  
The FIRST one that buzzes in, will get to provide a response, IN THE FORM OF A 
QUESTION. The EMCEE can be lenient, prompting the contestant to rephrase in the form 
of a question if he/she does not the first time.  If the contestant gets the response 
correct, the EMCEE must click the "Correct" button.  Similarly, if the contestant 
guesses incorrectly, the EMCEE will click the "Incorrect" button.  Whenever the first 
or second contestant buzzes in and guesses incorrectly, the option remains open for 
any remaining contestant to provide a response (it is not required for ANY contestant 
to respond).  A correct response will increase the contestant's score by the amount 
clicked on by the EMCEE.  As well, and incorrect response, or waiting too long (15 
seconds) after buzzing in, will DE-crease the contestant's score by that value.  If 
NO contestant buzzes in before the allotted time (also 15 seconds), then the "Correct" 
and "Incorrect" buttons will disappear, and the EMCEE must then click on the remaining 
"Jeopardy" button.

When any contestant buzzes in, the computer knows which one did it first (by 
milliseconds), that contestant's Name will be in a Red background, indicating that 
he/she can give a response.  It will lock out the other remaining contestants.  Once a 
response is given and the EMCEE clicks any of the buttons on that popup, all 
contestants' names will reappear with a White background.

When a contestant guesses correctly, a green circle will show on the 'podium' of that 
contestant.  If a contestant guesses incorrectly, the green circle will remain with 
the contestant that last guessed correctly.  Wherever the green circle is, that 
contestant gets to ask the EMCEE for the next category/value combination.

The Daily Double.  Each "Jeopardy!" round will have one category/value combination as 
a Daily Double.  When this is chosen by a contestant, a popup will appear that will 
give the EMCEE (or the contestant at the direction of the EMCEE) the opportunity to 
type in a value that the contestant wants to wager.  The contestant may choose any 
value from 5 to the amount he currently has (he/she HAS to wager at least 5).  If a 
Daily Double is the FIRST category/value selected in a game, the contestant may wager 
up to that value of that category/value combination.  Once that is done and the OK 
button is selected, the ANSWER will appear that contestant (and that contestant only) 
will be afforded a 15-second opportunity to provide a proper response.  If he guesses 
correctly, his score will be increased by TWICE the amount he wagered.  If he guesses 
incorrectly, however, his score will only be decreased by the actual number wagered, 
not twice.  In each "Double Jeopardy!" round, there are two Daily Doubles.  A True 
Daily Double is when a contestant wagers all he has.

At the completion of the "Jeopardy!" round, the EMCEE will select the "Double 
Jeopardy!" round from the menu bar under Games, and procedures used in this round 
will be like that in the first.  At the completion of a "Double Jeopardy!" round, 
the EMCEE will select the "Final Jeopardy!" round from the menu.  A complete game 
of "MacJeopardy!" consists of one "Jeopardy!" round, one "Double Jeopardy!" round, 
and one "Final Jeopardy!" round.

When the "Final Jeopardy!" game is played, a screen will appear with a rectangle in 
the center, called "JEOPARDY!".  The EMCEE will click on that rectangle and a CATEGORY 
will be displayed.  At that time, each contestant is to write down the amount he/she 
would like to wager in this game.  He/she may wager from zero (0) to as much as he/she 
has accumulated.  If a player has LESS THAN ZERO, he/she may not participate in this 
round, however if a contestant has zero, he/she may play (of course his/her wager will 
have to be zero).

Once these values are secretly recorded in front of each participating contestant, the 
EMCEE will click on the CATEGORY shown.  The ANSWER will appear and the 'FINAL 
JEOPARDY!" music will play for 30 seconds.  During that time, each participating 
contestant may write down on a sheet of paper, his/her response, in a question form.  
When the song ends, the names of the contestants will be shown, along with spaces for 
the EMCEE to type in the wagers revealed by each contestant in turn, starting with the 
contestant with the lowest accumulated score at that point. The EMCEE (or the 
contestant at the direction of the EMCEE) will type in that wager for that contestant.  
If the contestant responded correctly, the EMCEE will click the "Correct" button.  If 
not, the EMCEE will click the "Wrong" button.  This will either add the wager to the 
contestant's score, or subtract it.   (If at any time during the entire game that a 
mistake is made in the contestants' scores (e.g. maybe the EMCEE clicked the wrong 
button), the EMCEE may go to the menu bar and select the option, Score Corrections, 
under, File, Setup, and make changes to the scores on the popup.)

The contestant with the highest value after all rounds, wins the game.







